If an egg is spoiled it will float in a bowl of water rather than sink.
To avoid dulling the blade of your knife, turn it upside down before scraping items off your cutting board.
Use ice cube trays to freeze small portions of pesto, broth, applesauce and pizza sauce. Transfer the cubes to a Ziplock bag or other freezer-proof container and it will be easy to pull out exactly how much you need.
To make peeling and mincing garlic easier first mash the clove with either the flat part of the knife or with the knife handle.
Roll lemons or limes between the counter and the heel of your hand to make them easier to juice.
To kick up a standard grilled cheese sandwich, sprinkle a little freshly grated parmesan cheese on the outside of the bread while it is cooking then flip it over in the pan so the cheese will cook/stick to the bread.
If measuring out both oil/butter and honey put the oil or butter in your measuring cup first then the honey will slide right out.
Put bread ends or scraps into a big bag in the freezer to save for homemade croutons, stuffing, or breadcrumbs.
Discard the seeds from hot peppers to reduce the heat a bit and allow the pepper flavor to be appreciated.
Disassemble a pomegranate in a bowl of water! Seeds sink, pulp floats
Never store tomatoes in the fridge.
Rub your hands on stainless steel to get rid of the garlic smell.
To keep sliced apples from browning, soak them in a mixture of cold water and salt.
Peel ginger with a spoon! So much easier to shave the skin off than cutting it with a knife.
Never put lemon AND milk in your tea… it curdles.
Store onions in the fridge or soak them in cold water to help with watery eyes
Do not store apples and bananas near each other. Apples give off a gas that makes the bananas ripen (and go soft) much faster!
CAREFULLY sink your knife blade into the seed of an avocado to remove. Then scoop the meat out with a spoon.
Do not store potatoes and onions together it causes eyes in your potatoes.
Pull your bananas apart when you get home if they are ripe enough it will slow down the ripening so they do not get all brown.
If your house is smelling like onions, garlic, etc. simmer a pot with 1/2 inch of water, 1/2 inch of white vinegar and a cinnamon stick and in minutes the odors will be neutralized.
Briefly soak berries in water with vinegar added to kill mold spores and keep berries fresh longer.
Toss berries in flour before baking in muffins or bread and they will be more evenly distributed.
To peel a hard-boiled egg, crack it all over, roll under your palm, then use a spoon to get under the skin and peel it. Most often, it’ll come off in one fell swoop.
If you buy spinach in the plastic container, flip it over in the fridge each day to prevent the condensation from wilting the leaves.
Apples in pineapple juice, orange juice, or any citrus juice will keep them from browning.
You can tell if an egg is raw or hard boiled by spinning it. The hard boiled egg will spin faster than the raw one.
To get the most meat off a pineapple; twist the top spikes off, cut the bottom part to have an even stand then just slice off the sides.. entering the fruit peel at an angle.
Flip nut butters upside down and set them in the cabinet for a couple days before opening. Mixes all the oil into the rest of the nut butter.
When you buy berries of any sort take them out of the plastic container and line the container with paper towels.Then place berries back in. Helps to keep berries longer. Instead of turning into mush they kind of dry out. Also, do not wash until you’re ready to eat!
How do you know if a pineapple is ripe? Gently tug on one of the bottom leaves. If it comes away from the fruit with a gentle tug, the pineapple is ripe